1. Introduction
1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this document is to outline the requirements and design specifications for the development of a blog application using the MERN stack.

1.2 Scope
The scope of the project includes the development of a full-featured blog application with user authentication, CRUD operations for blog posts, and a responsive user interface.

2. Functional Requirements
2.1 User Stories
User Authentication:

As a user, I should be able to register an account.
As a registered user, I should be able to log in and log out.
Blog Posts:

As a user, I should be able to create a new blog post.
As a user, I should be able to view a list of all blog posts.
As a user, I should be able to view the details of a specific blog post.
As a user, I should be able to edit and delete my own blog posts.
Comments:

As a user, I should be able to add comments to a blog post.
As a user, I should be able to edit and delete my own comments.
2.2 Database Schema
Define the MongoDB database schema for user accounts, blog posts, and comments.

javascript
Copy code
// User Schema
{
  username: String,
  email: String,
  password: String,
}

// Blog Post Schema
{
  title: String,
  content: String,
  author: ObjectId(User),
  comments: [ObjectId(Comment)],
}

// Comment Schema
{
  content: String,
  author: ObjectId(User),
}
3. Non-functional Requirements
3.1 Performance
The application should load blog posts and comments quickly.
Server response time should be optimized.
3.2 Security
User passwords should be securely hashed and stored.
Authentication should be implemented using JWT (JSON Web Tokens).
4. Architecture and Design
4.1 Technology Stack
Frontend: React.js
Backend: Node.js with Express.js
Database: MongoDB
4.2 Application Flow
Describe how the user interacts with the application, from registration/login to creating and managing blog posts.
4.3 User Interface Design
Provide wireframes or design mockups for the application's UI.
5. API Documentation
Document the API endpoints, request/response formats, and authentication mechanisms.
6. Testing
Outline the testing strategy, including unit tests, integration tests, and end-to-end tests.
7. Deployment
Provide guidelines for deploying the application to a production environment.
8. Conclusion
Summarize the key points of the document and highlight any additional considerations.
